Quick Sanity Video Use guide-

Tip: Click the “three lines”(context menu) button; to hide this menu.

1.Load or Save a current project(always remember to save incrementally) will be downloaded to the downloads folder as a “Layercut” save. You may rename the file and it will still work.

2.When finished with your project video you may Export as WebM; which records the previewer live; so don’t mess with things until it’s completed its playback. “*Developers note* use a third party converter to get different file types.”

3.Set canvas size: 1280x720, 1920x1080, or 1024x576(more to come later).

4.Add, edit, name, select, toggle visibility, duplicate, or upload: image, audio or video clips to, Layers: from the layers 

5.Add, Edit, name, select(and multi-select), copy and paste, clips, to layer/s; by type: audio, video, text, transition, or scrub box to the selected clip/s

6.Add, Edit, multiple clip effects per clip type.

7.Click drag clips, shift click multiple clips and on the last selected clip click: start drag. If you drag after you selected all and released it will unselect the one you are trying to drag.

8.Grab playhead ruler to scrub timeline.

9.Hover the mouse over a specific spot, where you want to zoom into and use the scroll wheel to zoom in on that spot

10.Use middle mouse click to “grab” the canvas of the timeline and move yourself to where you want to look.

11.HOTKEYS:

Keyboard hotkeys:
Ctrl + Z → Undo
Ctrl + Y → Redo
Ctrl + Shift + Z → Redo
Ctrl + B → Split selected clip(s) at the playhead
Space → Play / Pause
Escape → Stop playback and close the clip context menu
Escape → Close the clip context menu

Modifier-assisted interactions
Shift + click on a clip → Multi-select / add clip to selection
Shift + drag-select behavior is preserved during clip/body/trim-handle selection logic.
Shift + right-click on empty timeline area → Opens the clip context menu without clearing the current selection
Right-click on empty timeline area without Shift → Clears selection, then opens the clip context menu

